# Can you tell an aged cell ? (Part 5)

How many layers of complexity are hidden under what we call evolutionary selection? Can we be less clueless about these layers? It's truly difficult to just stay away from a multi-scale consideration of biological systems, no matter how complex they might seem, as there you will atleast converge to a reasonable description of the system under study. 


Is stochasticity of perception mechanisms such an important parameter to optimize for, evolutionarily, that biological systems will only get to a point of semi-competence in whatever space of problem-solving capacity, resulting in selective pressure falling very quickly after that? Why even pay the cost, if the structures, and apparatus at large, do the job just fine? And here, I'm really refering to our capabilities to draw reasonable analogies of how Nature works. Afterall, are the deductive and logical frameworks that we use, these ones derived from our senses, and ultimately hanging on our evolutionary constraints, not the biggest limiting factor? Maybe these limitations are really only agressive on us, as individuals, but swiftly start disappearing when being considered by larger scale networks, where individuals are really only components. Top-down control would perhaps assure you that, given that a larger scale network can still work reasonably with semi-competent components. And you see so many examples at lower scales, of components while defective still holding under a system that can "tank" these defective components (obviously until a certain point of total failure), that you wonder if this tendency doesn't just scale. Optimization of individual fitness of a component at a scale $n$, is really just optimizing for the collective fitness at scale $n - 1$, and possibly decreasing fitness of components at scale $n + 1$. Doesn't the same just fractalize over every other scale? How am I supposed to even make sense of such complex systems, like biological ones, if we converge to single-scale considerations almost every time. Who cares if it is overly complex. Start making the transition in curriculums, or all you are going to get is stagnation. 


It would truly be a miracle to derive the rules of chess while tunnel visioning on a single piece.