# Comment about memory storage

While watching [Michael Levin Λ Joscha Bach](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kgMFnfB5E_A&t=7s), a few interesting topics popped up, namely information and memory storage in biological systems. 

If we converge to a cellular level, we can clearly see instances where memory and information storage is very clear, with the emergence of feedback loops, with genetic circuits, or simply metabolic pathways more generally, or altogether non-genetic circuits. And we can indeed try to associate these dynamics to macro-scale behaviour. Furthermore, if we condition some organism with a respective signal, and we collect the resulting metabolites (pos-adaptation) transfering them to a new organism never conditioned before to the respective signal (atleast during the organism's life-time, as evolutionary exposure to that signal might have happened), some memory acquiring may be possible [1]. But then Michael Levin raises an interesting point: What about exposure to an arbitrary signal that evolutionarily might have been unprobable to have been shown to said organism? (ex: Three flashes of light $\rightarrow$ Step to your left) Can these resulting metabolites be transfered to a new organism's cells, and be decoded?

One would put the following questions forward: Is the signal of such complexity that there isn't a perfect convergence for a new organism to decode it? Is there even an advantage for biological systems to address such specific signals (high cost in apparatus for detection and decoding, and possible decrease in differentiation evolutionarily, as the respective organisms are driven to a local maximum in fitness)? What type of top-down or bottom-up dynamics would confer the biggest number of change in degrees of freedom of the respective system (Changes in certain transcription levels of a certain RNA in respective cells?; Possible general change in ionic channel's expression leading to altered polarity in cells $\rightarrow$ possibly resulting in altererd cellular decision making mechanisms?; etc)?

Are there this many layers (if we can even take such a discrete approach) where natural selection acts upon, leading to such drastic changes regarding complexity, assuming slightly different initial conditions. Don't forget the immense evolutionary momentum that is behind these systems. Majority of the systems that we see don't fail (atleast incredibly hard) that often. It is perhaps in our interest to make systems that do indeed fail.

---


## References 

[1] - Schiavoni, C., & Genter, J. (2021). Transfer of Conditionability Between Planaria Through DNA and RNA. Journal of Student Research, 10(1). https://doi.org/10.47611/jsrhs.v10i1.1397
