# Computation and information physics in biological systems

## Initial statement

For the last century or so, massive improvements have happened in fields
such as information physics and physical limits of computing, relating them
to thermodynamics. As such, it is only natural that such new approaches and
considerations start to tackle ”unconventional” systems, like biological ones.
In accordance with Landauer’s bound, an irreversible transition with erasure of one bit has atleast an energetic cost of $ E ≥ k_{B}T \ln(2)$ , being released as
heat. Such bit erasure will have then a characteristic time-frame of $\tau = \frac{h}{
k_{B}T \ln(2)} $.
And we can notice as a general trend, that the speed of bit erasure increases
with the energetic cost for such erasure. With the opposite being also true,
and reversible computations (or converging to reversibility) having a theoretical null energetic cost, although with an increased period for bit erasure.
Other concepts like Bremermann’s limit are also very useful as they give you
a theoretical maximum for the amount of bit operations/state transitions that
can be performed by a system with mass m over an arbitrary τ period. Taking
this into account, you would perhaps follow a state-transition model similar
to the following one:
Drifting into the consideration of biological systems, and taking the last
sketch into account, it is indeed very difficult to access and determine rigorously enough the input set that a certain biological system receives. As such,
the only remaining useful metrics are initial state (approximate mass) and
output state (with final approximate mass and the associated heat released
for bit erasure).
