# Can you tell an aged cell ? (Part 1)

The scaling metabolic rates we see are very interesting indeed, such that at a first glance we can perhaps just point those tendencies as converging to an optimal thermodynamic solution, given the evolutionary constraints of the biological system being considered. In a general form, we have the following representation:


$$
\Delta Q \propto m^{\alpha}
$$


where $\Delta Q$ is the heat released, $m$ the mass of the system being considered, and $\alpha$ an arbitrary exponent derived from curve-fitting of various biological systems (regarding their mass and correspondent heat released). Although there are exceptions to the value $\alpha$ can take, it usually converges to two values, $\alpha = 2/3$ or  $\alpha = 3/4$, such that such even molecular complexes, and associated reaction schemes can be included within this tendency [1]. The natural tendency I have when considering this tendency, is to start seeing it as an information procesing problem, converging to information physics. What type of top-down control, or vice-versa, actually develops across biological systems, such that bit erasure starts costing less (or we start having less bit erasure). Here atleast refering back to Landauer's bound [2], as any type of bit erasure when done in an irreversible manner (in the following posts thermodynamic and logical irreversibility will be glanced over for a bit) will have an energetic cost of atleast $E \geqslant k_{B}T\ln 2$, released as heat.

















## References

[1] - West, G. B., Woodruff, W. H., & Brown, J. H. (2002). Allometric scaling of metabolic rate from molecules and mitochondria to cells and mammals. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 99(suppl_1), 2473-2478.

[2] - Landauer, R. (1961). Irreversibility and heat generation in the computing process. IBM journal of research and development, 5(3), 183-191.
