# Same substrate, multiple functions

Stacking of functions on the same "object" through Nature is very recurrent. And perhaps, we can also say the following: The earlier evolutionarily that "objects" emerges into Nature to be "tested", the more likely it is to have multiple functions.

---

So taking this into account, would measuring the entropic cost of state transitions of a certain system tell us anything about how many layers of complexity it entails, or how many functions are stacked in that system? 

---

If we take into account system $\chi_{1}$ that has 2 functions stacked, and system $\chi_{2}$ has 5 functions stacked, which system would be more limited in terms of number of states available for transition? Probably system $\chi_{2}$, right? In this system there would be a bigger convergence to a certain set of state transitions, given that there is bigger top-down control, implied by the bigger number of functions stacked there. Entropy of a certain state can be given as $S = k_{B}\ln \Omega$, if state transitions are equiprobable (Which most likely, they aren't. We'll then have, $S = -k_{B}\sum_{i} p_{i}\ln p_{i}$, where $p_{i}$ is the probability of the $i^{th}$ state transition). Nonetheless, given the mass of system $\chi_{2}$ which probably might be bigger, when in comparison with mass of system $\chi_{1}$ and the entropic cost of state transition, its ($\chi_{2}$'s) cost is smaller than what would be expected if this relationship was linear. 

---

As such, we could have a generally assigned metric of layers, or stacked functions, given the heat released over time of a respective system.
